  “None of your business,” said Ron jerkily, without looking up.

  “I’m afraid he won’t be a teacher much longer,” said Malfoy in a tone of
mock sorrow. “Father’s not very happy about my injury —”

  “Keep talking, Malfoy, and I’ll give you a real injury,” snarled Ron.

  “— he’s complained to the school governors. And to the Ministry of Magic.
Father’s got a lot of influence, you know. And a lasting injury like this” — he
gave a huge, fake sigh — “who knows if my arm’ll ever be the same again?”

  “So that’s why you’re putting it on,” said Harry, accidentally beheading a
dead caterpillar because his hand was shaking in anger. “To try to get Hagrid
fired.”

  “Well,” said Malfoy, lowering his voice to a whisper, “partly, Potter. But
there are other benefits too. Weasley, slice my caterpillars for me.”

  A few cauldrons away, Neville was in trouble. Neville regularly went to
pieces in Potions lessons; it was his worst subject, and his great fear of
Professor Snape made things ten times worse. His potion, which was
supposed to be a bright, acid green, had turned —

  “Orange, Longbottom,” said Snape, ladling some up and allowing it to
splash back into the cauldron, so that everyone could see. “Orange. Tell me,
boy, does anything penetrate that thick skull of yours? Didn’t you hear me
say, quite clearly, that only one rat spleen was needed? Didn’t I state plainly
that a dash of leech juice would suffice? What do I have to do to make you
understand, Longbottom?”

  Neville was pink and trembling. He looked as though he was on the verge
of tears.
  “Please, sir,” said Hermione, “please, I could help Neville put it right —”

   “I don’t remember asking you to show off, Miss Granger,” said Snape
coldly, and Hermione went as pink as Neville. “Longbottom, at the end of this
lesson we will feed a few drops of this potion to your toad and see what
happens. Perhaps that will encourage you to do it properly.”

   Snape moved away, leaving Neville breathless with fear.
  “Help me!” he moaned to Hermione.
  “Hey, Harry,” said Seamus Finnigan, leaning over to borrow Harry’s brass
scales, “have you heard? Daily Prophet this morning — they reckon Sirius
Black’s been sighted.”

  “Where?” said Harry and Ron quickly. On the other side of the table,
Malfoy looked up, listening closely.

  “Not too far from here,” said Seamus, who looked excited. “It was a
Muggle who saw him. ’Course, she didn’t really understand. The Muggles
think he’s just an ordinary criminal, don’t they? So she phoned the telephone
hot line. By the time the Ministry of Magic got there, he was gone.”

  “Not too far from here . . . ,” Ron repeated, looking significantly at Harry.
He turned around and saw Malfoy watching closely. “What, Malfoy? Need
something else skinned?”

  But Malfoy’s eyes were shining malevolently, and they were fixed on
Harry. He leaned across the table.

  “Thinking of trying to catch Black single-handed, Potter?”
  “Yeah, that’s right,” said Harry offhandedly.

  Malfoy’s thin mouth was curving in a mean smile.

  “Of course, if it was me,” he said quietly, “I’d have done something before
now. I wouldn’t be staying in school like a good boy, I’d be out there looking
for him.”
  “What are you talking about, Malfoy?” said Ron roughly.

  “Don’t you know, Potter?” breathed Malfoy, his pale eyes narrowed.

  “Know What?”

  Malfoy let out a low, sneering laugh.

  “Maybe you’d rather not risk your neck,” he said. “Want to leave it to the
dementors, do you? But if it was me, I’d want revenge. I’d hunt him down
myself.”
  “What are you talking about?” said Harry angrily, but at that moment
Snape called, “You should have finished adding your ingredients by now; this
potion needs to stew before it can be drunk, so clear away while it simmers
and then we’ll test Longbottom’s. . . .”

  Crabbe and Goyle laughed openly, watching Neville sweat as he stirred his
potion feverishly. Hermione was muttering instructions to him out of the
corner of her mouth, so that Snape wouldn’t see. Harry and Ron packed away
their unused ingredients and went to wash their hands and ladles in the stone
basin in the corner.
  “What did Malfoy mean?” Harry muttered to Ron as he stuck his hands
under the icy jet that poured from the gargoyle’s mouth. “Why would I want
revenge on Black? He hasn’t done anything to me — yet.”

  “He’s making it up,” said Ron savagely. “He’s trying to make you do
something stupid. . . .”

  The end of the lesson in sight, Snape strode over to Neville, who was
cowering by his cauldron.

  “Everyone gather ’round,” said Snape, his black eyes glittering, “and watch
what happens to Longbottom’s toad. If he has managed to produce a
Shrinking Solution, it will shrink to a tadpole. If, as I don’t doubt, he has done
it wrong, his toad is likely to be poisoned.”

  The Gryffindors watched fearfully. The Slytherins looked excited. Snape
picked up Trevor the toad in his left hand and dipped a small spoon into
Neville’s potion, which was now green. He trickled a few drops down
Trevor’s throat.

  There was a moment of hushed silence, in which Trevor gulped; then there
was a small pop, and Trevor the tadpole was wriggling in Snape’s palm.

  The Gryffindors burst into applause. Snape, looking sour, pulled a small
bottle from the pocket of his robe, poured a few drops on top of Trevor, and
he reappeared suddenly, fully grown.

  “Five points from Gryffindor,” said Snape, which wiped the smiles from
every face. “I told you not to help him, Miss Granger. Class dismissed.”

  Harry, Ron, and Hermione climbed the steps to the entrance hall. Harry was
still thinking about what Malfoy had said, while Ron was seething about
Snape.

  “Five points from Gryffindor because the potion was all right! Why didn’t
you lie, Hermione? You should’ve said Neville did it all by himself!”
  Hermione didn’t answer. Ron looked around.

  “Where is she?”

  Harry turned too. They were at the top of the steps now, watching the rest
of the class pass them, heading for the Great Hall and lunch.

  “She was right behind us,” said Ron, frowning.
  Malfoy passed them, walking between Crabbe and Goyle. He smirked at
Harry and disappeared.

  “There she is,” said Harry.

  Hermione was panting slightly, hurrying up the stairs; one hand clutched
her bag, the other seemed to be tucking something down the front of her
robes.
  “How did you do that?” said Ron.

  “What?” said Hermione, joining them.

  “One minute you were right behind us, the next moment, you were back at
the bottom of the stairs again.”

  “What?” Hermione looked slightly confused. “Oh — I had to go back for
something. Oh no —”

  A seam had split on Hermione’s bag. Harry wasn’t surprised; he could see
that it was crammed with at least a dozen large and heavy books.

  “Why are you carrying all these around with you?” Ron asked her.

  “You know how many subjects I’m taking,” said Hermione breathlessly.
“Couldn’t hold these for me, could you?”

  “But —” Ron was turning over the books she had handed him, looking at
the covers. “You haven’t got any of these subjects today. It’s only Defense
Against the Dark Arts this afternoon.”
  “Oh yes,” said Hermione vaguely, but she packed all the books back into
her bag just the same. “I hope there’s something good for lunch, I’m
starving,” she added, and she marched off toward the Great Hall.

  “D’you get the feeling Hermione’s not telling us something?” Ron asked
Harry.

Professor Lupin wasn’t there when they arrived at his first Defense Against
the Dark Arts lesson. They all sat down, took out their books, quills, and
parchment, and were talking when he finally entered the room. Lupin smiled
vaguely and placed his tatty old briefcase on the teacher’s desk. He was as
shabby as ever but looked healthier than he had on the train, as though he had
had a few square meals.

  “Good afternoon,” he said. “Would you please put all your books back in
your bags. Today’s will be a practical lesson. You will need only your
wands.”
  A few curious looks were exchanged as the class put away their books.
They had never had a practical Defense Against the Dark Arts before, unless
you counted the memorable class last year when their old teacher had brought
a cageful of pixies to class and set them loose.

  “Right then,” said Professor Lupin, when everyone was ready. “If you’d
follow me.”

  Puzzled but interested, the class got to its feet and followed Professor
Lupin out of the classroom. He led them along the deserted corridor and
around a corner, where the first thing they saw was Peeves the Poltergeist,
who was ﬂoating upside down in midair and stuffng the nearest keyhole with
chewing gum.

  Peeves didn’t look up until Professor Lupin was two feet away; then he
wiggled his curly-toed feet and broke into song.
  “Loony, loopy Lupin,” Peeves sang. “Loony, loopy Lupin, loony, loopy
Lupin —”

  Rude and unmanageable as he almost always was, Peeves usually showed
some respect toward the teachers. Everyone looked quickly at Professor
Lupin to see how he would take this; to their surprise, he was still smiling.
  “I’d take that gum out of the keyhole if I were you, Peeves,” he said
pleasantly. “Mr. Filch won’t be able to get in to his brooms.”

  Filch was the Hogwarts caretaker, a bad-tempered, failed wizard who
waged a constant war against the students and, indeed, Peeves. However,
Peeves paid no attention to Professor Lupin’s words, except to blow a loud
wet raspberry.

  Professor Lupin gave a small sigh and took out his wand.
  “This is a useful little spell,” he told the class over his shoulder. “Please
watch closely.”

  He raised the wand to shoulder height, said, “Waddiwasi! ” and pointed it at
Peeves.

  With the force of a bullet, the wad of chewing gum shot out of the keyhole
and straight down Peeves’s left nostril; he whirled upright and zoomed away,
cursing.

  “Cool, sir!” said Dean Thomas in amazement.

  “Thank you, Dean,” said Professor Lupin, putting his wand away again.
“Shall we proceed?”

  They set off again, the class looking at shabby Professor Lupin with
increased respect. He led them down a second corridor and stopped, right
outside the staffroom door.
  “Inside, please,” said Professor Lupin, opening it and standing back.

  The staffroom, a long, paneled room full of old, mismatched chairs, was
empty except for one teacher. Professor Snape was sitting in a low armchair,
and he looked around as the class filed in. His eyes were glittering and there
was a nasty sneer playing around his mouth. As Professor Lupin came in and
made to close the door behind him, Snape said, “Leave it open, Lupin. I’d
rather not witness this.”

  He got to his feet and strode past the class, his black robes billowing behind
him. At the doorway he turned on his heel and said, “Possibly no one’s
warned you, Lupin, but this class contains Neville Longbottom. I would
advise you not to entrust him with anything difficult. Not unless Miss Granger
is hissing instructions in his ear.”
  Neville went scarlet. Harry glared at Snape; it was bad enough that he
bullied Neville in his own classes, let alone doing it in front of other teachers.

  Professor Lupin had raised his eyebrows.

  “I was hoping that Neville would assist me with the first stage of the
operation,” he said, “and I am sure he will perform it admirably.”

  Neville’s face went, if possible, even redder. Snape’s lip curled, but he left,
shutting the door with a snap.
  “Now, then,” said Professor Lupin, beckoning the class toward the end of
the room, where there was nothing but an old wardrobe where the teachers
kept their spare robes. As Professor Lupin went to stand next to it, the
wardrobe gave a sudden wobble, banging off the wall.
  “Nothing to worry about,” said Professor Lupin calmly because a few
people had jumped backward in alarm. “There’s a boggart in there.”

  Most people seemed to feel that this was something to worry about. Neville
gave Professor Lupin a look of pure terror, and Seamus Finnigan eyed the
now rattling doorknob apprehensively.

  “Boggarts like dark, enclosed spaces,” said Professor Lupin. “Wardrobes,
the gap beneath beds, the cupboards under sinks — I once met one that had
lodged itself in a grandfather clock. This one moved in yesterday afternoon,
and I asked the headmaster if the staff would leave it to give my third years
some practice.

  “So, the first question we must ask ourselves is, what is a boggart?”

  Hermione put up her hand.

  “It’s a shape-shifter,” she said. “It can take the shape of whatever it thinks
will frighten us most.”
  “Couldn’t have put it better myself,” said Professor Lupin, and Hermione
glowed. “So the boggart sitting in the darkness within has not yet assumed a
form. He does not yet know what will frighten the person on the other side of
the door. Nobody knows what a boggart looks like when he is alone, but when
I let him out, he will immediately become whatever each of us most fears.

  “This means,” said Professor Lupin, choosing to ignore Neville’s small
sputter of terror, “that we have a huge advantage over the boggart before we
begin. Have you spotted it, Harry?”

  Trying to answer a question with Hermione next to him, bobbing up and
down on the balls of her feet with her hand in the air, was very off-putting,
but Harry had a go.

  “Er — because there are so many of us, it won’t know what shape it should
be?”
  “Precisely,” said Professor Lupin, and Hermione put her hand down,
looking a little disappointed. “It’s always best to have company when you’re
dealing with a boggart. He becomes confused. Which should he become, a
headless corpse or a flesh-eating slug? I once saw a boggart make that very
mistake — tried to frighten two people at once and turned himself into half a
slug. Not remotely frightening.

  “The charm that repels a boggart is simple, yet it requires force of mind.
You see, the thing that really finishes a boggart is laughter. What you need to
do is force it to assume a shape that you find amusing.

  “We will practice the charm without wands first. After me, please . . .
Riddikulus!”

  “Riddikulus! ” said the class together.

  “Good,” said Professor Lupin. “Very good. But that was the easy part, I’m
afraid. You see, the word alone is not enough. And this is where you come in,
Neville.”
  The wardrobe shook again, though not as much as Neville, who walked
forward as though he were heading for the gallows.

  “Right, Neville,” said Professor Lupin. “First things first: What would you
say is the thing that frightens you most in the world?”
  Neville’s lips moved, but no noise came out.

  “Didn’t catch that, Neville, sorry,” said Professor Lupin cheerfully.

  Neville looked around rather wildly, as though begging someone to help
him, then said, in barely more than a whisper, “Professor Snape.”

  Nearly everyone laughed. Even Neville grinned apologetically. Professor
Lupin, however, looked thoughtful.

  “Professor Snape . . . hmmm . . . Neville, I believe you live with your
grandmother?”

  “Er — yes,” said Neville nervously. “But — I don’t want the boggart to
turn into her either.”

  “No, no, you misunderstand me,” said Professor Lupin, now smiling. “I
wonder, could you tell us what sort of clothes your grandmother usually
wears?”

  Neville looked startled, but said, “Well . . . always the same hat. A tall one
with a stuffed vulture on top. And a long dress . . . green, normally . . . and
sometimes a fox-fur scarf.”

  “And a handbag?” prompted Professor Lupin.

  “A big red one,” said Neville.

  “Right then,” said Professor Lupin. “Can you picture those clothes very
clearly, Neville? Can you see them in your mind’s eye?”

  “Yes,” said Neville uncertainly, plainly wondering what was coming next.

  “When the boggart bursts out of this wardrobe, Neville, and sees you, it
will assume the form of Professor Snape,” said Lupin. “And you will raise
your wand — thus — and cry ‘Riddikulus’ — and concentrate hard on your
grandmother’s clothes. If all goes well, Professor Boggart Snape will be
forced into that vulture—topped hat, and that green dress, with that big red
handbag.”

  There was a great shout of laughter. The wardrobe wobbled more violently.

  “If Neville is successful, the boggart is likely to shift his attention to each
of us in turn,” said Professor Lupin. “I would like all of you to take a moment
now to think of the thing that scares you most, and imagine how you might
force it to look comical. . . .”
  The room went quiet. Harry thought . . . What scared him most in the
world?
  His first thought was Lord Voldemort — a Voldemort returned to full
strength. But before he had even started to plan a possible counterattack on a
boggart—Voldemort, a horrible image came floating to the surface of his
mind. . . .
  A rotting, glistening hand, slithering back beneath a black cloak . . . a long,
rattling breath from an unseen mouth . . . then a cold so penetrating it felt like
drowning. . . .

  Harry shivered, then looked around, hoping no one had noticed. Many
people had their eyes shut tight. Ron was muttering to himself, “Take its legs
off.” Harry was sure he knew what that was about. Ron’s greatest fear was
spiders.

  “Everyone ready?” said Professor Lupin.

  Harry felt a lurch of fear. He wasn’t ready. How could you make a
dementor less frightening? But he didn’t want to ask for more time; everyone
else was nodding and rolling up their sleeves.

  “Neville, we’re going to back away,” said Professor Lupin. “Let you have a
clear field, all right? I’ll call the next person forward. . . . Everyone back,
now, so Neville can get a clear shot —”

  They all retreated, backed against the walls, leaving Neville alone beside
the wardrobe. He looked pale and frightened, but he had pushed up the
sleeves of his robes and was holding his wand ready.

  “On the count of three, Neville,” said Professor Lupin, who was pointing
his own wand at the handle of the wardrobe. “One — two — three — now!”

  A jet of sparks shot from the end of Professor Lupin’s wand and hit the
doorknob. The wardrobe burst open. Hook-nosed and menacing, Professor
Snape stepped out, his eyes ﬂashing at Neville.
